 Copyright 2005-2007 Nanorex, Inc.  See LICENSE file for details. 

Some notes about when to change the mmp format version
which is written into the mmpformat record, and about
what it means or should mean.

[Mostly by bruce 050217; split out of fileIO.py itself by bruce 050227]

$Id$

===

General notes (partly redundant):

- When to change the format-version string:

Each extension to the kinds of info records that can be written
(or any other upward-compatible file format extension)
should upgrade the 'optional' date in the format string;
only changes which should (ideally) cause earlier code to reject
the file, or warn that reading it might not work properly,
should upgrade the 'required' date.

(Note that current reader code doesn't yet try to notice whether it's
too old to read the file; but it does show the user what format the
file had, in the Edit Properties dialog for the Part.)

It will be good if all format-version strings ever used
sort in the proper order when sorted as python strings.
At some point the reader code might assume this.
  
- Strictly speaking, the format-version should not be stored in
the assy since it's a property of the file as written, not of the assy
contents. But the assy records the value found in the last-read file
or used in the last-written file (whichever happened later),
and some other code finds it there for display to the user.

- The format string MUST be updated whenever the mmp file format
used by our writing-code (writemmp or anything it calls) changes
in a way which will not work properly when read by older reading code.
This permits reading code to predict whether it can read the file...
or it would, if older reading code contained any check of the format,
but so far it doesn't, so this doesn't yet help older code read newer files.
This also permits newer reading code to handle both newer and older files,
and that should work fine provided we do the right thing when we upgrade
the format (which has never happened since this mmpformat record was introduced).

- The format string CAN be updated when the mmp file format changes
in an upward-compatible way, which will work better when read by newer code
but will still work correctly (or just as well as older mmp files do)
when read by older code. This is the case when new mmp records are added
(which older reading code will ignore, both in cad and in simulator),
for which older code ignoring them is not a problem. Whether it's good
or not to change the format is not yet clear, since the reading code
doesn't yet try to use that info at all.

- Any change to the written mmp format should be documented in a comment
near the top of this file, whether or not it's upward-compatible and
whether or not it resulted in a change to the mmpformat value.
But this has never been done until 050217 (though the format has
changed several times).

- Experimental change [bruce 050217]:
We now include in the format both the required date
of the reading code, for correctly reading the file,
and the optional date, i.e. the date if you want to read all the optional
info (e.g. new upward-compatible record types) that might be in the file.

Ideally we'd base the latter on the actual file contents; but probably we
never will, since it would require two passes (inefficient for big files),
and is partly redundant (since reader can notice when it doesn't recognize
something, though it can't guess the date of definition of that thing).
Probably better would be to write a dated "definition record" before the first
use of each record type (and say whether it's optional, etc). ##e
