nanoENGINEER-1™ v0.0.7 (Alpha 7)

Some of the Bug Fixes In Alpha 7

1. Undo/ Redo is implemented
2. Selection/Display/Jigs: If more than 1 jigs (other than motors) are attached to the same atom , only first jig in the order (in the model tree) gets highlighted (756) 
3. Some bugs where MMKit’s clipboard view doen’t get updated when you do modifications in the 3D workspace (876, 1570 – 1573)


  
UNSUPPORTED FEATURES:

1. Bond Inference not supported but a limited valence error check supported. 

By the term ‘bond inference’ we mean automatically deciding what type of bond will be formed between the participating elements. It is not supported for this version of ne-1. When an element is deposited, by default, all the bonds are single bonds. User must manually change the bond type between the elements in ‘Build mode’. However, if the structure is not chemically correct (bad valences etc), ne-1 shows a ‘pink wire frame’ around each atom indicating valence errors.  This ‘valence error’ display, by default, is set to ON. It can be turned On or Off from the ‘Bonds’ tab in the Preferences dialog. (Edit>Preference…).  
Note that there are some kinds of chemical errors this (the Valence Error Checker) doesn't detect. For example, it can't tell whether rings should be aromatic or not. All it checks is that the bonds on each atom could possibly add up to the right number of valence electrons. The Valence Error Checker doesn’t treat graphitic and aromatic bonds differently.

Example:
-- In Build mode, select ‘Carbon’ and then change its hybridization to ‘sp’ by clicking on the appropriate button in this dialog.
-- Deposit this (sp) Carbon in the 3D Workspace. Observe that both bondpoints of   the deposited are single bonds and a pink wire frame appears around the atom center indicating valence errors.
-- Now select (sp) Nitrogen from the Modeling Kit
-- Highlight one of the bondpoints of (sp) carbon and deposit this (sp) Nitrogen, Notice that a single bond will be formed between the C(sp) and N(sp). But ne-1 will display valence error wire frames around these atoms. 
-- You can change this bond type to a triple bond by:  (a) highlight the bondpoint, right click and then from the context menu that popped up, select triple bond. OR (b) from the Build dashboard, click on the button that corresponds to a triple bond, now move your mouse such that the bond gets highlighted and then left click. 
-- By following this procedure, you can change the bond order. Observe that, when the triple bond is formed, the valence error wire frames will go away. 
        
3. PDBs With Multiple Bond Information Not Supported 
 This version of ne-1 treats all bond types as single bonds while reading from or writing to a PDB file. Also, it doesn’t save the hybridization type into the PDB file. For example, (sp2) hybridized Carbon in a structure will be saved as a sp3 hybridized Carbon with wrong bond valence. (3 bonds instead of 4). Also, the double bond of this (sp2) Carbon is saved as a single bond Therefore, save your models ONLY in MMP file format to avoid major loss of work (569, 763)
 
SIMULATOR / MINIMIZE
4. Simulator/Minimize: will support bonding between elements specified in the element selector of nanoENGINEER-1. But note that bond stretching involving Fluorine atoms, or bond bending involving Boron, use estimated rather than calculated parameters.  
5. Simulator/Minimize: Multiple bonding between certain elements is generally supported, but some parameters, notably for double bonds involving nitrogen, are estimated.  
6. Simulator/Minimize: The simulator doesn’t take into account the effect of torsion. This will make systems with double or aromatic/graphitic bonds act less stiff than they really would.   
7. Simulator: Electrostatic interactions are not supported; in particular, the hydrogen and dative bonds are not handled. 

GAMESS Jig
8. GAMESS jig can be added by select some atoms first in ‘Select Atoms’ mode and then attaching this jig by using Menu item: Jigs>Gamess. This jig can be attached to a maximum of 200 atoms. 
-- Certain GAMESS optimization runs or Energy calculation can take very long time (hours/days). While a GAMESS job is being performed, user is not allowed to do any other operation in that session of ne-1. User must wait till the GAMESS job is finished or opt to terminate it by hitting ‘Cancel’ button in the progress bar. 
-- Also, certain GAMESS run may create large output files. So make sure that your system has enough disk space to handle such runs. ALL GAMESS jobs are save inside the ‘Job Manager’ directory. (User’s home directory/ Nanorex/Job Manager) (742)
 
Miscellaneous
 
9. The symmetry information for a selected chunk cannot be obtained. (261) 
10. Unicode characters are not supported for naming the items in the model tree. (474)
 
 
KNOWN BUGS (ALL PLATFORMS)
 
Various Delete Operations
 
1. If you select the part icon (top icon in the model tree) and hit the delete key (or click Delete), the entire part will be deleted without asking the user for confirmation. Hit Undo to restore the previous state if you accidentally delete the whole model (147)  
2. Any file currently opened by nanoENGINEER-1 can be manually deleted from the computer without any warning message. (215) 

Selection Modes (Select Atoms and Select Chunks)

4. Selection: Can not select a chunk by clicking on any of the bonds in that chunk. (11) 

 
Build Mode
6. Build: While in this mode, you can not delete an atom in the 3D workspace using Shift + Ctrl + left click (Shift + Cmd +click on MAC) operation if that atom is represented in ‘lines display’. The atom center doesn’t get highlighted while in lines display. For the same reason, you can not move the atom using left mouse drag. Simple workaround exists. Change the display representation to Tubes or CPK or Ball&Stick , then highlight the atom center and do Shift +Ctrl+ left click or left drag operation.(715-2)  
7. Build/ Bond Order : The context menu ‘Reposition Bondpoints’ of an atom reorients the bondpoints but while doing so, it makes the bondpoint type as single.  Let’s assume that a Carbon atom with (sp2) hybridization is deposited in build mode. Now you highlight one of its bondpoints, right click and select ‘double bond’ from the context menu. The representation of the bondpoint will change to a ‘double bondpoint’. Now, if you highlight the atom center, right click and select ‘reposition bondpoints’, it will clear the ‘double bondpoint’ representation you just made and thus, all three bondpoints of (sp2) carbon will be represented as single bond types. (839) 
 
Modeling Kit in Build Mode
 
This feature has some known bugs. Also refer to Linux Only Bugs and ‘Dialogs and Dashboards’ bug sections for some related issues. 
 
9. Modeling Kit: Sometimes this dialog box doesn’t close even after main window of ne-1 is closed. It goes away after a few seconds though. (852)  
10. Modeling Kit: For lower resolution screens the Modeling kit occupies most of the Model Tree space, thus obscures most of the Model Tree area.(844)  
11. Modeling Kit: If the ‘Clipboard’ tab of Build mode’s Modeling Kit dialog is open and then you hit a keyboard modifier key (e.g. C, ‘S’, ‘1’ etc), the program is supposed to switch back to ‘Atoms’ tab (i.e. the next time you  click inside the 3D workspace, it will deposit the atom displayed in the ‘thumbnail view’  window of that dialog and not the ‘paste able chunk’ on the clipboard) . 
---But in some cases, it doesn’t because of a ‘keyfocus’ problem. In order to overcome this bug, try clicking inside 3D workspace once, then hit a modifier key. Now it should change to ‘Atoms’ tab. 

Move Mode
 
12. Move: Keyboard modifier keys that constrain translation or rotation around an axis (e.g. press ‘Y’ and ‘R’ to rotate the selected chunk around Y axis.), doesn’t work for the first time after you perform ‘delta +’ or ‘delta –‘ operations (which move a chunk by a specific distance). A workaround is to press and release the modifier keys and then press them again to perform these operations. (674)  
13. Move absolute: if more than 1 chunk is selected, and you hit ‘Move Absolute’ button on the dashboard, it doesn't move the individual chunk's CG to the specified X,Y,Z location. (879) 
 
Extrude Mode
 
14.  The 'extrude a ring' feature has some bugs. These will be fixed for the Beta release of nanoENGINEER-1. To use extrude's 'Ring Mode' effectively, make sure you follow these steps:  
-- Get everything adjusted first in the 'rod mode'.  For example, select the proper bond offset sphere or arrange the copy units such that you can see their bondpoints highlighted in a way you would like to bond them. (In general, while in the ring mode, adjustments made from graphics area don’t work)
-- Then, you may switch to "Ring Mode" by selecting ring from the rod pull-down menu on the dashboard. While viewing the ring, you may increase the number of copies. 
-- If you need to do any further adjustments, switch back to "Rod Mode", make changes and switch back to the "Ring Mode".  
-- Select the 'Done' button on the dashboard when finished. (155)
 
15. Extrude: Separates the chunk permanently when atoms are partially selected and then extrude mode is cancelled. (198) 
16. Extrude: Multiple chunks are automatically merged into a single chuck, even when cancel is hit. (397)  
17. Extrude’s ring feature doesn’t take the curvature into account while forming the bonds. (494) 

Cookie Cutter

18. Cookie Cutter: Large selections can cause response latency. (8)  
19. Cookie Cutter: Right click while rotating the grid using middle mouse drag operation, changes the grid orientation (59)  
20. Cookie Cutter/Display bug: the 3D workspace (graphics area) turns into a black display if you resize the ne-1 window while drawing an auto shape e.g. a circle or a hexagon etc. The original display can be regained by hitting any key. (687) 
 
Fuse Chunks Mode
 
21. Fuse Chunks: If the chunks were ‘merged’ in previous operation while bonding them together, ‘Back Up’ button on the dashboard doesn’t ‘unmerge’ them. It only deletes the bond formed in earlier operation. (486-10)  
22. Fuse Chunks: Back up button on dashboard to delete a bond formed in previous operation deletes the bond, but it doesn’t restore the previous bond angles. (502-16)  
23. Fuse Chunks can not bond elements of two or more chunks if they are already bonded. Also, some history messages are not correct.  (580)  
24. Fuse Chunks: operations while in this mode are sluggish if it’s a large model and has large number of bondpoints. (689) 
 
Minimize/Simulator
(see also: the Unsupported Features section)
25. For some structures minimize needs multiple executions of ‘minimize’ to boil down the high force to a lower value. (567) 
26. Minimize operation for some elements with higher order bond types doesn’t work. See ‘Unsupported Features’ section for more info. (805) 
27. Simulator: In some cases, hydrogen atoms or other elements ‘fly away’ while running a simulation movie. This happens when atom centers are very close and therefore the repulsive force becomes very high (528, 558) 
 
Movie Player
28.  Extrude Tool/Movie: Simulation movie becomes invalid if it is created while in extrude mode, after adjusting the chunks (to be extruded) as ‘bondable’ with their copy units. (495)  
29. Movie/Clipboard: While playing a simulation movie, if you click on a different clipboard item (rather a clipboard ‘Part’), then the movie can not be ‘viewed’. But it continues to run. ne-1 doesn’t print a warning message to instruct user to click on the appropriate ‘Part’, for which the movie is created for,  to view the movie. (578-5) 
30.  Movie: If you run a simulation and then modify the model further (e.g. delete some atoms etc), the movie becomes invalid.  ne-1 generally identifies such situations. But in certain cases, it doesn’t.  Some Examples: After creating a simulation movie, if you ‘Hydrogenate’ some chunks or change the bond types or ‘transmute’ some elements to a different one. To avoid this, always rerun a simulation after doing such modifications for the correct results. (901)
 
Naming
 
31. Naming of created items: When starting a new part or opening a new file, the object name indexing is not reset to 1. For example, new chunk names continue to increment from the previous part's index number. (64) 
32. Naming GAMESS Jigs: If a Gamess jig contains a Forward or Backward Slash in it (e.g. “AM1/None”), then the Gamess job will fail. So do not include these characters while naming this jig. (796)  
33. Naming a File (plot tool bug): Do not save a file with a single quote symbol in it. This affects the plot tool and you won’t be able to see the plot tool results. For example, if a file is named as : “ Bob’s molecule ” , the plot tool will not plot the results if any. (712)  
34. Model Tree: Dragging and dropping objects onto the part icon at the top of the list places the items(s) at the bottom of the list. Similarly, dragging and dropping items onto a group folder places them at the bottom of the group, not the top.  (360) 
 
Cursor and Display Related Bugs
 
35. Cursors: Middle mouse button "Hint Cursors" can sometimes get stuck. Usually, if you press and release the Shift or Ctrl/Cmd key, the appropriate cursor is restored.(113, 158,404)  
36. Cursors: The skull and crossbones cursor in build mode will not display (when pressing Ctrl/Cmd) after clicking in the Model Tree area. (217)  
37. Display: Larger atoms can obscure bondpoints when displayed in CPK mode. (258)  
38. Display: Bondpoints are not seen in sp, sp2 Carbon and sp2 Oxygen, when these are represented with Van der Waals display (656)  
39. Display: The front clipping plane will sometimes clip objects that should not be clipped  
40. Display: bond and atom center highlighting in build mode has some bugs. The highlighting flicker whenever there is a selection or valence error wire frame around the atom center. (715) 
41. Display: Valence error wire frame is displayed even for invisible atoms. Also, while Build mode when you move cursor inside such a wire frame, even the invisible atom center gets highlighted. (870)  

Dialogs and Dashboard
 
42. Users operating ne-1 with a low screen resolution and large font size report bugs in the dialog boxes and dashboards. In such cases, the dashboard items of some modes are not visible, tolerance slider bars don’t operate correctly, some property forms such as Modeling Kit occupy most of the space in model tree etc. (513, 581, 844)  
43. Zoom Tool: Some Mac users report cosmetic bugs. It is a good idea to save your work before using it.
 
Povray Rendering
 
44.  Povray rendering doesn't show different bond types (it will be supported feature for this version) (830)  
45.  Povray rendering of lines display is shown as black lines, motor arrows are not rendered (226, 527)  
46. Povray file of a model neglects the user defined lighting and displays the povray image in ne-1’s default lighting. (447)  
47. Povray: Background fill type is not saved in a povray file. Only solid background can be rendered. (888) 

Miscellaneous
 
48. User can not save exclusive features of nanoENGINEER-1 into the PDB file format. Some examples of such ‘MMP file only’ features include jigs, groups, hidden states of chunks, multiple chunks, entire clipboard feature etc.  ne-1 doesn't give enough warning messages for users trying to save such features into a PDB file. (252)  
49. Only open one main window. Opening more than one nanoENGINEER-1 application window will have unexpected results. (362)  
50. Jigs: Rotary and Linear motors do not move with the chunks they are attached to. However, after moving the chunks, you can reposition the motor by right clicking on the motor name in the Model Tree and then using context menu option ‘recenter on atoms’    (168) 
51. Bond lengths: After minimize operation the bonds between some elements are shown stretched. This is because bond lengths of some elements used in ne-1 simulator are slightly different than the ones used in ne-1's CAD code. This will be fixed in a future release. (900) 
 
 
Windows Only Bugs
 
1. During drag-and-drop, node icons are not shown in the cursor's drag object. (360) 
2. On very rear occasions, the File>Open , Save , Save dialogs don’t pop up because of some python.exe application problems. It might happen if you are working with a huge file with lots of GAMESS jigs in it. Again, it is very unlikely to happen. Saving your work often while working on large file is recommended. (774) 
 
Macintosh Only Bugs
 
1. Sometimes a cursor's bitmask will suddenly not work, leaving a white square around the cursor. (772)
2. Icon tray/bar redrawing of the icon images will show up overlapped, zig-zagged, cracked, etc. in certain situations. In worst cases, the right-side icon bars will go invisible until the invisible bar is clicked on, which redraws the bar but changes your button. This usually only happens when resizing the main window by dragging its "resize handle" on the lower right of the window frame. The workaround is to resize it to be a bit smaller than you want, and then make it a bit bigger again so that it's the desired size. Some users report that the toolbars always draw wrongly after that initial down-sizing, but then they always draw properly again after that final small up-sizing. (861) 
3. Occasionally, bouncing between programs will lead to the menu (screen top) disappearing, only to re-appear with mouseover (or mouseover+click).  
4. On Mac OS X Tiger, the tool buttons don’t look ‘pressed’. On other platforms this is not a problem. ne-1 provides a workaround for this. In the 3D Workspace (i.e. Graphics area), press Shift and Option keys and do Command click to bring up the debug menu. Now select the "Mac OS 10.4 QToolbutton Workaround" command from this debug menu. This will resolve the issue. (878) 
 
Linux Only Bugs
 
1. Opening a plot file from the plot tool dialogs needs ‘kwrite’ editor which is available with only with KDE desktop (434)  
2. Modeling Kit in Build Mode: When you enter build mode, this dialog first appears in the middle of the 3D workspace (graphics area)  for a fraction of second and then it is moved to the left hand side of the ne-1 main window. The amount of time this dialog stays inside the 3D workspace depends on the model size. (844) 
