RELEASE NOTES FOR nanoENGINEER-1 v0.0.4 (Alpha 4)
March 14, 2005

What's new in 0.0.4:

1. Element Selector: 
  - removed controls for changing element colors.
  - Refined buttons to be easier to read, especially on MacOSX.
2. Element Color Settings:
  - new control panel for changing element colors.
  - accessed by "Display > Element Color Settings..."
  - element colors saved to nE-1 preferences database
  - element colors can be saved to a text file in human readable format
  - load element colors from a file
  - can restore default nE-1 element colors
3. Lighting: New Lighting control panel for changing lighting settings.
4. Plot Tool: 
  - new control panel for plotting simulator trace file output using 
   GNUplot.
  - buttons on control panel open trace and plot files in a text editor.
  - plot files can be edited by hand and replotted using "Plot" button 
5. Simulator trace files now created next to DPB trajectory file, with the name
   dpb_filename-trace.txt
6. Simulator: new toolbar/menu contains Simulator, Movie Player and Plot Tool.


in 0.0.3 (2/28/2005):

1. Select > Doubly: The cursor displays the "Wait Cursor" (hourglass) while 
   Select > Doubly is working.
2. Model Tree: Improved Drag and Drop behavour in the Model Tree widget.
3. Clipboard: Fixed some bugs related to the Clipboard. More stable now.
4. Movie Player: Program no longer displays errors when selecting Done 
   while movie is playing. 
5. Element Selector: Users can change element colors for all supported 
   element types. 
6. Element Selector: Users can load/save custom element colors from/to a file. 
7. Extrude Tool: The bond-offset spheres are turned off by default. 
   They can be turned on from the dashboard. 
8. Extrude Tool: The bond-offset spheres are rendered in a manner to clue 
   the user on which configurations will produce the most bonds. 


in 0.0.2 (2/14/2005):

1. Simulator works on MacOSX.
2. Fixed bug in cad that limited the simulator to no more than 940 frames
   on Windows.


in 0.0.1 (2/2/2005):

1. Everything
